Vulnerability
A flaw or weakness in system security procedures, design, implementation, or internal controls that might result in a security breach is termed as Vulnerability.

E.g. Software bugs, Inefficient controls, Hardware flaws, Human errors

Exploit
An exploit is a piece of software or a sequence of commands that takes advantage of a vulnerability to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on a computer software or hardware.

E.g. Computer virus, malware or flooding of requests to the server by a bot.

Threat
Threat is any potential danger that is associated with the exploitation of a vulnerability. A threat is an undesirable event that can happen to assets.

E.g. An organization running on windows operating system was targeted and blocked until a ransom of $300 was credited to hackers account to unlock the data. Threat here is the leak of data.

Threat agent
Threat agent is a term used to represent an individual or group that can cause a threat.

It is important to identify who would want to exploit the assets of a company (capabilities), and how they might utilize those (intentions) against the company.

Threat agent = Capabilities + Intentions + Past activities

E.g. The threat agent in the above example is a hacker.
Risk
Risk is a function of likelihood of a given threat agent exploiting a particular vulnerability, and the resulting impact of the adverse event on the organization.

Risk = Likelihood * Impact

Likelihood is the probability of occurrence of the threat.

Impact is the magnitude of harm that could be caused by the threat. Impact can be a business impact or a technical impact.

Need for Risk to be calculated
Risk needs to be calculated to estimate the impact that will occur to the organization (monetary/technical/reputation) if a vulnerability is exploited by a threat agent. Moreover, some industry standards and government regulations mandate calculation of risk. By calculating risk for every application, organizations can prioritize which application needs more and/or immediate attention for security enhancements. 

Attack vector aka paths
Attackers can potentially find many different paths to cause a harm to business through their application. Each of these paths represents a risk that may, or may not be serious enough to warrant attention.

Paths could be easy or hard to exploit. Sometimes, these paths are trivial to find and exploit and sometimes they are extremely difficult. Similarly, the harm that is caused may lead to any or no consequence.

Controls
Control is a mitigation to protect the asset from risks.

E.g. The organizations would not have faced WannaCry ransomware attack if the latest Microsoft patches were updated to systems running Windows O.S released the previous week.
